And now let's talk about
egress-only internet gateways.
So they're used only for IPv6 traffic,
and they're similar to a NAT gateway,
but for IPv6.
So NAT gateway is IPv4,
but egress-only internet gateway is for IPv6.
So what do they do?
Well, they allow instances in your VPC outbound connections
over IPv6 while preventing the internet
to initiate an IPv6 connection to your instances.
And to do so, you must update your route tables.
So let's have an example.
We have the internet,
our VPC with a public subnet or private subnet.
And so this EC2 instance can access
the internet through the internet gateway
and can also have the internet initiate a connection
to the instance using IPv6,
because it's connected to the internet gateway
and it's in the public subnet.
Now we don't want that.
What we want is just outbound connections.
So let's consider an EC2 instance in a private subnet,
so it doesn't have an internet gateway,
that makes the subnet private.
And we're going to create an egress-only internet gateway.
So what's going to happen is that now
the EC2 instance in the private subnet
will be able to access the internet over IPv6
through the egress-only internet gateway,
but the internet will not be able to initiate
a connection from the internet to the EC2 instance.
So to summarize, here is a diagram
of how IPv6 routing works.
So let's consider a VPC with IPv6.
We have a public subnet, we have a private subnet,
so they both have IPv4 and IPv6 obviously in them.
And so again, if we consider a web server
accessing the internet,
it can do it over IPv4 and IPv6 through an internet gateway.
And so the route table for your public subnet
is going to have the first line to be local
for the local IPv4 and the local IPv6 traffic.
Okay, these are within the CIDRs of your subnets
or your VPC,
and then anything else,
so 0.0.0/0, this is the everything IPv4,
and the ::/0 is the everything IPv6,
go through the internet gateway,
which allows your web server to access the internet.
So this should make sense.
And this is how we enable IPv6 and IPv4 both ways
in a public subnet.
But if you consider a private subnet,
your server again has a private IPv4 and also an IPv6.
And so how do we make sure that this server
can access the internet, but not be accessed?
Well, you know already that for IPv4
we need to use a NAT gateway.
So the server connects to the NAT gateway, okay,
and the NAT gateway then connects to the internet gateway
and then accesses the internet over IPv4.
And for IPv6, we know we need to use
an egress-only internet gateway.
So IPv6, the server connects
to the egress-only internet gateway
to the internet over IPv6.
Now your route table looks a little bit different.
Again, the first two lines are the same,
but then your NAT gateway ID is a target for 0.0.0.0/0.
So this is all IPs' IPv4.
And then the fourth line is ::/0,
which represents a target
to the egress-only internet gateway,
because this is a target for the IPv6 type of traffic, okay?
So this should make sense.
And then if you have this in mind,
then you understand exactly the difference
between an internet gateway, a NAT gateway,
and an egress-only internet gateway.
So that's it.
I hope you liked it.
And I will see you in the next lecture.